The next thing we wanna do is
start working on the Auth Pages.
And for that, like I said, a sign in and
a signup form is mostly the same just
like the sign in and
the signup API route were mostly the same.
So, because of that, we're just gonna
create a component that just toggles what
mode you're in and
it literally knows what to do.
So, I'm gonna go to components.
We'll make a new component here.
I'm gonna call this authForm.tsx.
And we're gonna do all the stuff in here.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
import some of our UI stuff from chakra.
So let's say @chakra, layouts and
we're gonna need some box stuff.
I think we're gonna do some flex stuff.
You haven't used flex yet, but
it's literally just like a flex
box div which is really cool.
You could just use box and
add the Flex Properties yourself but
the flex component already does that.
We're gonna need the input and
we're gonna need the button or
actually I think input button.
I think these come from react actually,
I would love to react there we go, okay.
So we got that, we're also gonna need
the router because after someone
signs in we wanna route
them to the home page.
So we're gonna get access to the router.
Up until this point we haven't had to
touch a router because next year's
handles the routing for us based off
the folder structure the file naming.
But you could actually access the router
to do programmatic routing and
the way you can do that is getting the use
router from next router like that.
So we get this use router hook.
Well do that.
The other thing that we wanna get from
this other package is called SWR.
Which stands for still while revalidate.
This is also from verse L or next JS.
So we're gonna do something
called useSWRConfig.
This package is actually really cool,
it's probably one of
the coolest innovations I've
seen in front end development and while
there's tons of other packages like it.
But basically, what it does is it
handles your data fetching very nicely.
It'll handle caching,
it'll handle optimistic updates.
It'll even handle refetching and
revalidating the cache for
you based off different scenarios.
If you're on your computer and you focus
off your browser, but then you come back
to your browser, it'll refetch,
it'll do different things like that.
It's actually really cool.
And there's other ones like it, but SWR,
was the one that was made by the next
JS team, so we're gonna use that one.
But there's another one called react
query that I think might be a little,
I wouldn't say better, but
it has like, more options to it.
Whereas SWR is just like,
more bare bones, more flexible.
So, try it out which one you like.
We're gonna use SWR.
And they useSWRConfig is gonna be
a hook that we can use to basically
update the local cache
of this application.
So if you ever use something redux,
if you ever use Apollo,
you have the ability to do a mutation and
then get that data back, and
update the local cache with
the data that you got.
That's basically what
we're going to be doing.
And this will like propagates across the
whole app or anything that's listening for
that data.
And then the last thing we're gonna
do is import our auth mutation.
All right, so now we're gonna
make our AuthForm, like so.
And so I'm gonna exports default AuthForm.
And then we can basically this all form
like I said it's just gonna take in a mode
and that's gonna be a string whether
it's sign in or sign up that's it.
It's just gonna take a mode.
And if you are inter TypeScript when
you wanna know how to type check,
a functional component and react.
There's so many ways you can do it.
I see people like they'll add,
like just a type here,
just like you would in regular TypeScript.
But if you do it this way,
and you add the FC type here,
you can actually type in a generic and
then you could do something like this.
And then now this will be type checked and
then when you're in your jsx you'll
see the type check over all the props and
stuff like that.
So this is how you would
probably type check it.
I'll leave if people want it but
again it's not necessary if you don't
If we're not doing TypeScript things.
It's not gonna change
the behavior application.
TypeScript doesn't change
how your code runs it's for
build time and
deaf time it's not for runtime.
It all gets taken away obviously the
browser doesn't understand TypeScript so
it's not gonna change the behavior
of your code it's just for
a better developer experience.
Okay so we got off form next thing we can
do is set up some states to keep track of
in this form, so we got to keep track of
the email the password we probably wanna
keep track of if we're loading or not.
So we can show some type
of loading indicator and
then yeah let's keep us set up those
states so I'll say email, set email.
And that'll be useState from reacts and
we're gonna to set that to be string,
we gonna to copy that do
the same thing for password.
I'll be an empty string and then I'm
gonna do the same thing for, is loading.
So are we loading?
Set is loading, And
that will default to false and
not empty string.
Okay, so we got that, and
then we'll get the router,
so we'll say router equals use router,
there we go.
So we got all of our variables for now and
then the next thing we wanna do is
start working on some of this JSX.
So what we'll do is we'll return a box,
which again is basically
a div that we can style.
We want this to be full page so
we'll say height of
100 view height with of
100 view with banana.
I don't know why I put O, there we go.
So we got that going and
then we're gonna make this dark sorta
bit of background of black like that.
And then what we're gonna do is I'm
basically just gonna put a form right in
the middle the page.
A square that has an email and
a password button.
So it's very basic, very simple.
I want it centered.
So I'm gonna use a Flexbox for that.
So I'm gonna say flex.
And then for that I'm going to put
justify=center and align=center.
Both of these are shortcuts for
justify content and align items.
You can also type that out if you want to,
but we get that for
free with this flex thing.
And then I'm gonna give it a height
of let's say 100 pixels maybe,
so we'll do that and
then what I'm gonna do is I'm just
gonna put the word hello here so
we can check it out.
And then after this,
I'm gonna make another flex.
For this, it's pretty much going to be the
same thing except it needs to account for
this Flexbox that's on top of it,
which is gonna be like a top
little nav bar, all right?
So we're gonna count for that,
which is 100 pixels high.
So we're just gonna copy
just to find the center.
Put that in the middle as well.
Oops.
And then for the height on this,
we're just going to say,
you're going to be calc,
100 view height, minus 100 pixels.
So account for that.
And then inside of here we'll
just put the word form like that.
And I guess you probably won't see
it until I change the color of this
assumption change the color white
right click so we can actually see it.
The background is black.
Okay, so we have that we'll come
back obviously finishes but
you know my style to just do like a little
bit of a component, put it on the page and
make sure it's there so we can actually
see it and then we'll develop it as we go.
So, we got to authForm.
That means now we have to go back to
our pages and we gonna make two pages.
Be careful not to make these pages
inside the API, because then
that would make API route, which we
already have for sign up and sign in.
So, make sure you got an API folder but
on the root of the pages folder,
we're gonna make two new ones
called signin.tsx and signup.tsx.
And these should be pretty simple because
the Authform's doing the heavy lifting.
So for sign in, all we have to do
is just import the all form like,
so, and
then we can make a sign up function.
And we're just gonna export
default the sign up function and
then all we're gonna do is
just return the AuthForm,
with the mode of sign up like that.
And that's all we have to do because
it's literally the same thing.
So I'm gonna copy this and put this in
sign in, and change the mode to sign in,
and then obviously change the name from
sign up to sign it on the component.
So pretty straightforward.
Now I'm gonna check this out,
see what it looks like.
So I'm gonna start my server.
Up here run dev.
I think I still have it
open yep there we go.
So here we go now I'm gonna
go to slash sign in and
so we got a couple things going on.
Anybody wanna tell me
the first issue that we see?
Yes
>> There's not a button to get to this.
>> Yeah,
there's not a button to get to this.
So yeah,
you can go to the other type it in.
That's obviously a big problem.
What's another problem as far as UI?
>> Looks like it's actually centered.
>> Yeah, it's not centered.
Why is it not centered?
What's on the left side?
The sidebar?
Yeah.
Like, why would we show the sidebar for
not signed in yet?
Right?
That's because we have this sidebar layout
and this player layout for the whole app,
even for the sign in pages.
So we need to find a way
to opt out of this layout.
For the sign in and a sign up pages,
that's the problem that
we're having right now.
But if we go back and
look at our code_app.tsx,
this layout wraps every single page.
So how do we go about making sure
we don't actually have that.
And this is where I was saying this is
why it's pretty interesting with Next.js.
So, earlier I said the way
you could get around this,
is instead of wrapping the layout
inside of the _app.tsx,
you could have just done it on
every single page individually.
I could wrap the layout here, I could
wrap the layout here, if I wanted to.
I can opt in versus having to opt out, but
the problem with that is that layout will
get refreshed every time you change pages
and the state pretty much gets refreshed.
So a music playing at the bottom
would restart every single time, so
we couldn't have done that.
So we had to move it to the app.
But now the problem is,
everything in the app has this layout.
So to get around that, what we'll do is,
we'll go back to our pages sign in and
sign up, and
we'll add a little property on it.
So I'll say sign in, and then what I'll
say, and we can add whatever we want.
I'll just say authPage = true.
So obviously, this is an authPage, signing
out all pages true on the component,
then I'll do the same thing, I'll sign up.
I'll say, signup.authPage is also true.
And now that I have that when
I go back into my app.tsx,
I can actually look at that
property to see if it exists.
And if it does,
I can do a conditional on it.
So instead of doing a layout here,
what I'll do,
is I'll say, components.authPage.
Is this an authPage component?
If so, then I only want to put
the component in here like that.
That's it.
If it's not, then I still wanna
wrap this inside of a layout.
Like this.
So now this is saying, yes if this is
a component with the authPage property,
do not wrap it in the layout.
If it doesn't have the authPage property,
it should be protected.
It should be in a dashboard or
should have the player layout
There's other ways I've
seen people do this,
they will sometimes add the component
itself as a property to that or
they'll add the layout as
a property to the component.
Haven't tested that to see if it would
actually refresh the state or not.
But I know by keeping this player
layout in the DOM, it'll be cached and
it won't reload, and therefore we
won't have song stopping every time.
So now if we go back and refresh the site,
and you can see that layout went away,
and I always have a full page
form here without that layout.
But then if we go back to the homepage
we should have that layout.
>> So
normally things would be hot reloading,
is the refresh necessary because it's
at that initial component entry level?
>> Yeah first of all hot reloading isn't
always, it doesn't always do his job.
And secondly I'm also opting out of
Next.js new build system which uses
rust now actually and it has a completely
different like hot reloading and
building is supposedly really cool.
But we opted out of it by
adding this babelrc file,
because we actually need a plugin that
hasn't been converted over to rust yet.
So there should be, there's probably
issues there as well, and then lastly,
yes, there is a caching issue sometimes
where you're like on the root.
So for any one of those reasons,
it probably did not refresh your cache.
Yeah, hot reloading is
great when it works.
But sometimes, when you expect it to work,
and then it doesn't and
you'd to spend three
hours trying to debug and
you realize it was just like cached, my
goodness, I can't tell you how many times.
I'm just gonna have it now just keeping
this open, right clicking this, and
then Empty Cache and
Hard Reload every single time now.
Because that's the only thing
that fixes it sometimes.
It's even stopping the server and
turn it back on doesn't fix it.
You just gotta clear everything,
so pretty terrible sometimes.
And that's nothing on Next.js, that's
just the technology of hard reloading.